Overview
Curling is a sport where two teams take turns sliding stones down a sheet of ice towards a target. The most common form of the game features teams with four players, with each player getting two shots per round, known in curling as an “end”. When one player shoots, two of their teammates follow the stone down the ice, sweeping its path with brooms to direct it to the desired position. Teams score by having the stone closest to the center of the target at the completion of the end, one point for each stone inside of the opponent’s closest stone. After a set number of ends (usually 8 or 10), the team with more points is the winner.

A primer on curling rules (both 4-person and mixed doubles) can be found here.

Mixed Doubles Curling presents a unique analytics opportunity described as the "Wild West of Curling" due to its distinctive format and strategic complexity. Unlike traditional curling, Mixed Doubles features:

8 ends total.
2 pre-placed stones.
Power play. Each team is allowed to opt for a “power play” once per game when they have the hammer. When a power play is being used, the pre-placed stones are moved out to one of the sides. See the primer for an image depicting the pre-placed stones during most ends, and the pre-placed stones when a power play is used.
Limited existing analytics - most available data comes from the Curlit website
High strategic variance - teams show great disparity in how they use power plays
Real-world application - coaches actively need these insights for upcoming competitions
The full rules of all forms of curling can be found here.

Available Data:
Shot-by-shot stone positions from Curlit are available on Github for the following competitions:

Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games
World Mixed Doubles Curling Championship 2023
World Mixed Doubles Curling Championship 2024
World Mixed Doubles Curling Championship 2025
These data correspond to the shot-by-shot images that are found e.g. in this 2025 World Mixed Doubles Championship Results Book. See Curlit for results from other competitions.

There are 26,000+ observations in the data which correspond to one throw during one end of a game in one of the competitions listed above. The data are stored in six CSV files and the columns contain the following information:

Competition.csv:

CompetitionName – Name of the competition.
Place – City/Country where the competition was competed.
Venue – Venue where the competition was competed.
CompetitionID – Unique ID for the competition.
Competitors.csv:

CompetitionID – ID for the competition (from Competitions.csv).
TeamID – ID for the team. Note: Team IDs across different competitions are associated with nations, not necessarily the individuals on that team.
NOC – National Olympic Committee, the nation of the competing team.
Reportingname – Name of the competing athlete (LAST NAME First Name) .
Ends.csv:

CompetitionID – ID for the competition (from Competitions.csv).
SessionID – ID of the draw/round for the match.
GameID - ID for the match. Note: A unique ID for a match can be made from a combination of Competition, Session and Game IDs.
TeamID – ID for the team (from Teams.csv).
EndID – ID for an end of the match.
Result – The points scored by that team in the end.
PowerPlay – A flag for when a team uses their power play in an end. A value of 1 corresponds to pre-placed stones being moved to the right side, 2 being pre-placed stones are moved to the left side. An empty value means the team is not using their power play.
Games.csv:

CompetitionID - ID for the competition (from Competitions.csv).
SessionID - ID of the draw/round for the match.
GameID - ID for the match. A unique ID for a match can be made from a combination of Competition, Session and Game IDs.
GroupID – In competitions where teams are split into groups for play, the ID of the group for the teams in this match.
Sheet – The name of the sheet on which the match is played.
NOC1 – National Olympic Committee of the first competing team.
NOC2 - National Olympic Committee of the second competing team.
ResultStr1 – Final Score of Team 1.
ResultStr2 – Final Score of Team 2.
LSFE – Last Stone First End. This column indicates which team threw the last stone in the first end of the match. In curling parlance, this is called starting with “the hammer”. A 0 value means that NOC2 threw the last stone in the first end, a 1 means that NOC1 threw last.
Winner – Indicates the winning team. 0 indicates that NOC2 won the match, 1 indicates that NOC1 won the match.
TeamID1 – ID for the team corresponding to NOC1 and ResultsStr1 (from Teams.csv).
TeamID2 - ID for the team corresponding to NOC2 and ResultsStr2 (from Teams.csv).
Stones.csv:

CompetitionID – ID of Competition in which match was competed (from Competitions.csv)
SessionID – ID of the draw/round for the match.
GameID – ID for the match. A unique ID for a match can be made from a combination of Competition, Session and Game IDs.
EndID – The end in which the shot is taking place.
ShotID – ID for the shot. Within a particular match and end, shots occur in ascending order of the ShotID values. (i.e. lower ShotIDs are thrown first)/
TeamID – ID for the Team (from Teams.csv).
PlayerID – ID for the player taking the shot (1 or 2).
Task – The type of shot that the player is throwing, or the objective of the shot. Details to come.
"0": "Draw"
"1": "Front"
"2": "Guard"
"3": "Raise / Tap-back"
"4": "Wick / Soft Peeling"
"5": "Freeze"
"6": "Take-out"
"7": "Hit and Roll"
"8": "Clearing"
"9": "Double Take-out"
"10": "Promotion Take-out"
"11": "through"
"13": "no statistics"
Handle – The turn of the stone as it is thrown. A 0 value means the shot is turning clockwise, a 1 indicates counterclockwise.
Points – An assessment of the execution of the shot, ranging from 0 to 4. A 4-point shot is one that has been ascertained to have been perfectly executed to the player’s intention, while a 0 is a shot that totally failed in its intended result. Note that these points are not the same as points awarded to teams after ends, but simply an evaluation of a shot’s effectiveness.
TimeOut – Binary variable for whether a time out was called before the shot.
Stone_{i}_x – The x position of stone i on the sheet, after the stone for the row has been thrown. Stones can take x values in (0,1500). The value 4095 is a sentinel value indicating that the stone has been knocked off the sheet and is no longer in play. The value 0 indicates that the stone has not yet been thrown in this end.
Stone_{i}_y – The y position of stone i on the sheet, after the stone for the row has been thrown. Stones can take y values in (0,3000). Again, the value 4095 indicates the stones have been knocked off the sheet and aren’t in play, and the value 0 indicates the stones have not yet been thrown.
A Note on stones: Stone i does not necessarily correspond to ShotID i. For each match, the first six stones correspond to one team, while stones 7-12 are for the other team. Stone_1 and Stone_7 are the pre-placed stones, and teams throw the rest of their stones in order. For example, a Team 1 in a match would have stones 2-6 and throw them in ascending order.

A curling sheet is marked by several important lines and positions that define gameplay and scoring.

Centerline (x = 750): Divides the sheet lengthwise and serves as a reference axis for all play.
Backline (y = 200): Marks the rear edge of the house; stones completely crossing it are out of play.
Hogline (y = 2900): Indicates the line that stones must completely cross to remain in play and where players must release the stone before delivery.
Button (x = 750, y = 800): Represents the center of the house, used as the reference point for scoring.
Teams.csv:

CompetitionID - ID for the competition (from Competitions.csv).
TeamID - ID for the Team (from Teams.csv).
NOC - National Olympic Committee, the nation of the competing team.
Name – Name of the country corresponding to NOC abbreviation.